Specs revision (#1283)
anoma/namada: documentation/specs/src/interoperability/ethereum-bridge/bootstrapping.md

bridge and maintain its liveness.

## Overview

To bootstrap the Ethereum bridge, there are six governance parameters which
must be written to storage:

- `eth_bridge_min_confirmations` - The minimum number of block confirmations
  on Ethereum required for any given event to be voted on by Namada validators.
- `eth_bridge_bridge_address` - The address of the `Bridge` contract, used to
  perform transfers in either direction (Namada <> Ethereum).
- `eth_bridge_bridge_version` - The version of the `Bridge` contract, starting
  from 1.
- `eth_bridge_governance_address` - The address of the `Governance` contract,
  used to perform administrative tasks, such as updating validator sets in
  Ethereum.
- `eth_bridge_governance_version` - The version of the `Governance` contract,
  starting from 1.
- `eth_bridge_wnam_address` - The address of the deployment of the native
  ERC20 token, representing NAM in Ethereum.

Here is an overview of the steps to follow to enable the Ethereum bridge through a
governance proposal for a given Namada chain:

1. The [smart contracts](./ethereum_smart_contracts.md) of the Ethereum bridge

>    should be deployed a priori, with an initial validator set and other parameters,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   should be deployed beforehand, with an initial validator set and other parameters,
```

I get what you mean :smile:, and from Namada's perspective it is _a priori_, but this might be confusing for some readers).

   such as nonces, from epoch $E_0$. This step can be done by anyone, but ultimately

>    it's up to governance validators to decide which addresses to trust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   it's up to Namada stakers & validators to decide which addresses to trust.
```

2. A governance proposal should be held to agree on an epoch $E_{bridge} > E_0$ at
   which to launch the Ethereum bridge. The proposal should be executed at some
   grace epoch $E_{grace}$, with $E_{grace} \le E_{bridge}$. The wasm code of
   the proposal should modify storage with:

    - The epoch $E_{bridge}$ when the bridge is to be enabled.
    - The aforementioned governance parameters of the Ethereum bridge.

>    Additionally, the knowledge of $E_0$ must be communicated through the governance

Reviewer 2: I assume a hash of the validator set will be used?

Author: the epoch should be enough, since you can query the validator set of a given epoch

   proposal's JSON data. This is important, as subsequent validator sets from epochs
   $E$ such that $E > E_0$ should be relayed if the governance proposal passes.
   The Ethereum block height when the contracts were deployed should also be
   included in the proposal.
3. Validators should vote on the proposal if the wasm code correctly updates
   Namada's storage, the proposal contains the epoch $E_0$ of the first set of
   validators in the deployed contracts and the Ethereum height at which the
   contracts were deployed, and the contracts are initialized correctly.
4. Eventually, the proposal passes at some epoch $E_{end} \le E_{grace}$, if enough
   validators vote on it. Then, the Ethereum oracle receives an update command, so it
   can start processing Ethereum blocks to extract confirmed events. Should the proposal
   not pass, no state updates are applied in Namada, therefore the bridge is not enabled.

> Notice that nothing stops users from preemptively updating the smart contracts

Reviewer 2: I'm confused here. Do you mean that the person deploying the contract lied about which validator set was in the contract?

Author: no, the contract was deployed with the right address, but because the governance proposal is published on-chain as public knowledge, anyone can start pushing validator set updates to the contracts before the governance proposal to enable the bridge passes

Reviewer 2: ah, I see.
